I asked you about word processing.
That might be useful information.
All right.
Well, I was, I used an Oliveni portable type, I think, for 20 years.
One of those nice things, looking like a can of, you know, sardine can, basically.
And then I broke my wrist one year, and I couldn't use it, because you need two hands for the... I was all in plaster up the shoulders.
And I was obliged to buy a computer.
I had a little laptop, which I would use with one hand.
And of course, I actually started to use those.
Especially for writing, don't you think?
Yeah.
The ability to revise, I think.
Absolutely.
Because every time before, I had to... She had to make a mistake, right?
Exactly.
I'm that way, if I make a mistake.
I don't like even looking at the page.
And I throw it away.
And that can take forever.
Yeah.
And it did.
Especially if you're writing nonfiction.
You're constantly revising, adding, you're getting new information.
And you can always put it in.
Yeah.
And you can store it.
I mean, you can scroll it, have a look at it.
And the spelling checkers, you hate to admit, are wonderful.
Do you have a spelling checker?
No, I'm quite a good fellow.
In fact, I'm a very
Yeah, but I'm not talking about making mistakes and spelling so much as making typos that the machine will pick up for you.
Well, the problem is, I tried one once and I started querying things that I put down because the word was French.
Yeah.
And so it turned off and flooded and everything.
I'm not going to handle it.
Yeah, that's right.
You can actually get a bilingual one.
You can get a bilingual one.
But how does it matter, you see?
How does it matter when you're switching to monologics?
Well, you can borrow it to do that.
I don't know what your software is, but you can just buy a French dictionary, and you can load a French dictionary if it's worth it.
But if you're fine, who needs it?
But for all those accents, though,
I mean, I just use the old-fashioned way of looking it up in a picture.
You do it in hand, right?
Yeah.
I just finished a book, which is being published this summer.
It was my first book, a non-fiction book.
And there were a lot of French phrases and words.
And I actually did put in all the accents with the computer, which is really cool.
I don't do this whenever.
It took forever to do it.
Anyway, tell me, you're quite a phenomenon.
Have you come to terms with this experience that you've had over the last, what is it, seven years now?
Not really, no.
And it's still... I find this all to astonish me.
And I just want this to get closer.
No, because the thing was, it was never a deliberate attempt to...
do anything other than really just write a book about something that intrigued me at the time.
And the fact that it took off has surprised me, has surprised the publisher.
And it's wonderful to have a book that a lot of people have enjoyed reading.
There's no getting away from that.
And nobody, no author, unless he's an arrogant liar, would deny the fact that it's very nice to have a book in a bestseller list.
That's terrific.
This I noticed, by the way, weighs in the Sunday of the New York Times.
This is on the New York Times.
They've told me that it's a threat.
No, it's there.
I get it a week in advance.
I got it this morning.
Oh, yeah?
Well, wonderful.
I buy the Times.
Yeah, yeah.
A week in advance.
It's pretty high.
It's about 156.
Good God.
Well, wonders will never cease, will I?
I read you publish his weekly interview.
I write occasional interviews with CW, and when you were working on this, you said, well, I'm working on a book about my dog, and I don't expect it to be, you don't expect, you didn't expect much in terms of... I didn't expect anything ever, to be quite honest with you.
I mean, the day I finish a book and say I expect this to be on the bestseller list, I think it was probably the beginning of the long, slippery road down to oblivion.
Because everything that's good that's happened to me in writing has come as a result of either accidents or perverse desire to do what I wanted to do rather than what I should do in commercial terms.
Because that, the dog book is not... I mean, people weren't banging on the door and saying, what we'd really like you to do is a book about your dog.
It is kind of brazen when you come right down.
It's something... Well, it's frivolous.
I'm essentially a rather frivolous person.
And that's something I wanted to do for two or three years.
I mean, was this dog-driven or, I mean, subject-driven?
Well, I was always interested in an animal's eye view of the human condition.
And obviously it's not a novel notion.
But when we got this, it was rather peculiar dawn.
He did seem to have such a bizarre character that I invested in, perhaps, with more opinions and literary ability than he may naturally possess.
And it was just a great deal of fun to do.
You know, it wasn't a hardship.
I was working with a great artist, Ed Coren.
That's a classic.
But, I mean, one of the things I really wanted to do it for was that I'd, for years, have been wanting to work with Ed.
because he's one of the few reasons I've subscribed to the New Yorker.
Great difficulty over the oceans.
There's one thing I found about the New Yorker is that the subscription department is avid to take the check, and then they're very tardy in sending the magazines, so I take out two subscriptions for every one set of magazines that ever comes to me.
Have they changed?
Have they?
Well, it would be nice to think so, but I mean, I... You know, the Tina Browns,
Are they more competent in the subscription area?
Oh, well, they're really very business-oriented.
Well, I gave up after about three years.
I like it as much as I used to, frankly.
The last time I tried was about three years ago, and I was saying to my publisher, I had problems with taking out a subscription, never seeing anything back, and he said, well, don't worry, I'll take it out in your name.
So he took one out.
I didn't trust that, so I took one out as well.
And between the two of us, we got one magazine out of 52, whatever it was.
Anyway, for years I've been looking at Ed Coren's work in the magazine.
What I love about him is he's a very droll man.
He's not just an illustrator, he's a very witty man.
And the other thing when I started thinking about the book is that he has a shaggy style which exactly...
corresponds to the nature of the dog he was a shaggy dog so when I got in touch with him I said would you be prepared to consider working together on this I'd like to meet the subjects they met and they circled each other no because I was in Long Island at the time and I was in Vermont and part of the reason I was in Long Island was because I didn't want him to have to
go too far.
That's a big deal, isn't it?
Well, no, we'd rented a place for the winter because I knew I was going to be working on this and another project.
Is this in the Hamptons, by the way?
Because I have a, I write for a number of publications, one of which is this Hamptons magazine on Long Island.
They take me every week.
So this would be perfect for that.
Well, the meeting occurred in the Hamptons.
At some point, bring in a Hamptons connection for me at some point.
Well, I mean, I can do it very easily.
I mean, we rented a house in Amagansett, and Ed came down from Vermont, and the introduction was arranged, I think, underneath the dining table or something.
And he said, well, I've looked at him, and I think I can possibly do something.
And so I said, well, that's terrific.
And I'll send you chapters as I do them.
which I did, and then he sent drawings, and they were wonderful.
And he said he was going to do 20, and he ended up doing 59 or 60 or something like that.
And the curious thing about this project is that practically everybody involved in it, apart from myself, has got copious facial hair.
I mean, a dog has got a beard and a moustache.
My editor at Knopf has got a beard.
My publisher, Sonny Mehta, has got a beard.
Ed's got a, you know, a sort of moustache.
I don't know what happens, but clearly it's got something, maybe something in there somewhere, I don't know.
Maybe if you want to get published, you ought to grow facial hair.
This is kind of a throwback to the old days, isn't it?
We had these collaborations between writers and illustrators.
I have to say, this has been the most trouble-free, painless, delightful experience of anything.
what I've ever experienced as an artist or an illustrator.
Because it was just a delight to open the ombudsman.
He caught it every time, right?
Yeah.
And the nuances are there.
I love that I'm signing the books.
I mean, if I, anything to do with books and stuff, or he's autographing, you know.
Well, the thing is, what Ed did very correctly, he divined the fact that it's a whole
feeling about this as a little man walking around in a baggy fur suit, making comments on the rest of the people that we meet.
And that's the way he's drawing the dog.
He's just wonderful.
Also, he's a very nice guy, socially.
For yourself, characterizing this narrative and getting a voice, I mean, is this in your mind's eye the dog's voice, or is this
Are you being a ventriloquist, of course, dear?
No, well... I tried to distance myself as much as I could and just attend to the punctuation, but I've studied him.
I think we work together.
He comes to the office and sits down with me.
So we've shared an office for seven years now.
And he has his idiosyncrasies.
He has a very...
pervasive presence in the house.
I suspect from the way he looks at my wife and I from time to time that he's got some fairly caustic opinions about the way we live, especially about our friends.
And that's what I tried to work into the literary voice.
Is that what it's called?
The literary voice.
I didn't want him to be cute because he's impersonal.
He's not cute.
I mean, he's there and he's
engaging in many ways, but he's not one of those bandy dogs.
You said that you never have any commercial expectations for a book, but on the other hand, maybe this is naivetea, but dog books and cat books.
Well, no, you must make a distinction between the two, and this is something I have a friend in England who runs a
uh, publishers called Cape, you know, Jonathan Cape, Tom Mashler.
Well, one of his authors is a guy called Desmond Morris, who wrote a make-it-it.
Uh, in one particularly productive year, Desmond Morris did two books.
One was called Dog-watching, and one was called Cat-watching, right?
The cat book sold tremendously well, the dog book disappeared.
And I have a, I always have been of the opinion that, um,
People with cats would buy anything about cats.
But people with dogs may or may not, depending.
But it's certainly not a sure thing.
I mean, there isn't a musical about dogs, for instance, that has been running for lovely 20 years.
And I don't think, I think cat people are different, very different.
They are.
We have both a cat, which is my father-in-law's cat.
Well, he's found in Florida.
But we have our lab, you know, our big black lab.
She's just a dog.
And, you know, I mean, it really is two different personalities.
Oh, sure.
And they appeal to different practices.
Absolutely.
I mean, I'm a dog person because what I find difficult, I've had a couple of cats, but what I find difficult about cats is their indifference, their self-sufficiency, and the fact that they get to places which you didn't know they could and rather wish they hadn't.
whereas a dog is just a straightforward adulation on four legs.
Thrilled to see wherever you are, whatever the circumstances, totally forgiving.
Will go anywhere with you.
A cat is a creature of place, I think, and a dog is a creature of people.
So that's why, in the end, I always come down in favor of dogs.
But I don't think of the literary
proposition.
If you had a cat book and a dog book, the smart money would go on the cat book.
I think you're right.
I did a piece, one of my earliest books years ago.
It was a delightful book.
It was by a cat veterinarian.
He was 87 years old and he made house calls in Manhattan.
His name was Dr. Commuti.
And the title of his book was All My Patients Are Under the Bed.
And I said,
It's one of the most popular pieces I ever wrote.
I wish I had all the newspapers in that I have now.
I could have sold it everywhere.
Really?
It was just magnificent.
Everybody loved this story.
Well, I mean, look at a very nice guy I met a couple of years ago, Cleveland Dainbury.
He's written about it.
That's right.
What he said, the first thing a cat does when it gets into some place, it always tries to figure out how to get out.
Like he said, a cat's first instinct is to look for the ways of escaping.
Never mind who's there.
Oh, really?
That's interesting.
And if you look at a cat, it takes a cat a long time to be comfortable in a place.
Well, you're supposed to rub butter on their paws to make them feel at home and all sorts of stuff, aren't you?
A dog doesn't mind when you're there and there's a bit of food.
A cat we have will only eat scallops.
My wife has to get up.
What?
Scallops.
Fresh.
Oh, we got cat food.
We buy them.
Well, they drive out on Long Island every day.
Well, we live, you know, Cape is a tough driver.
We buy flows in Florida once night.
They're not that expensive.
And, you know, we take them out of the freezer.
We put them in the micro for about 20 seconds on this nice little block, dice them up.
And she will eat them, and she will protect us.
I mean, if the dog is foolish enough to come near the cat.
Yeah.
The dog never wins at these battle for cats.
Cats are more, I guess, cats are more cunning.
I think they're smarter.
Anyway, but it is a fun concept.
I guess the details of his life, as we call it.
They're fairly accurate.
I mean, I know that he was abandoned, obviously.
I'm pretty sure that he was thrown out of a car because he's had this phobia about
You know, if you get anywhere near the car and open the trunk, he's in there.
He doesn't want to be left behind.
I know he was kicked when he was young because he's got a complete paranoia about feet, even naked feet, in the summer that reach out and touch and tickle him on the table.
He's up a lot.
And I think I know why he was abandoned, because when he got in, he was in a terrible physical condition.
He was almost blind.
He didn't have a sense of smell.
and his hair was boring out, which we later found out because he had a thyroid deficiency.
And he's supposed to be a hunting dog.
A hunting dog who can't see and can't smell is not much of a deal.
So I think in that unsentimental way that the French have for hunters anyway, he was just regarded as a piece of unnecessary equipment that was costing money.
So he was just taken out and dumped somewhere.
So that the early part of...
I can't describe his life.
That's probably fairly accurate when I made it up.
But he has now become, rather than a hunting dog, he's just become a prince and a layabout.
It's terrible.
But does he sense your change in your, if you were a fortune, but I mean, the fact that your success is
made you all something of celebrities?
Well, yeah, he quite likes it.
I mean, he's been on television.
I think it was the Today Show or Good Morning America.
They sent a team out.
And in almost every shot, a dog is there.
And he's been on the cover of magazines in Europe because every time anybody comes to the house with a camera, he gets his face in the way.
I doubt very much that he considers this anything other than just a minor amusement, because he likes people.
He'd much prefer to be with people and with dogs.
And he's always in the middle.
If there's half a dozen people come for a drink, you can bet that he's going to be right in the middle, hoping for maybe something to fall off the table.
I think they enjoy that.
They enjoy a sociable creature.
Whereas a cat would probably go away and sit on the top of a bookshelf and look at you with a rather disdainful look.
A dog is in there saying, yeah, all right, cocktails, drinks, food, canopies, yeah.
Yeah, that's fun.
Going back to the, I've got the details of your life have been well chronicled and published weekly.
I don't know, any of them are the features that I've seen.
Well, it's a pretty interesting story.
You're an expatriate Englishman who spent some time in New York in the advertising business.
Went back to London, I guess.
Yeah, it was back and forth a bit.
You became disenchanted with this?
Well, it's a business that requires a great deal of boyish enthusiasm, I find, advertising.
And for a while, I had a lot of it, because I thought it was great.
I was lucky.
I was in it in the
mid-60s through to the end of the 70s.
And that, I think, was the most fun that advertising has ever been, because it wasn't overburdened by research and respectability.
If you had a great idea, you knew it was a wild idea, people would give it a go, rather than at the moment.
I think what happens now is it's all research, you know, focus groups and pressure groups, and you can't say this because the women's movement would have a go at you.
Correct.
Yeah.
And from what I gather now... You're trying to come up with a Frito Bandito, for instance.
Oh, no, sorry, no, good God.
And there was a fun, you know, the Nut and Honey ads just a couple of years ago, and they would say, what's for breakfast?
And the guy would say, Nut and Honey, and they all point the guns at him like he was gay and making that.
But that was on the air for about six plays.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And it was a cute ad.
Yeah.
Anything particularly memorable that you worked on that you can remember?
I guess not really.
I mean, I worked on the Hathaway account when I was very young, the one with the iPatch, and the British travel account, and Ollie Betty and Sonny Harrods in England, DP.
I was all right.
I mean, I think I was a reasonable copywriter, but the nature of advertising is that you get promoted beyond your
level of competence.
And after a while, it's not enough that you write ads and commercials.
You've got to supervise other people writing ads and commercials.
And if you don't make a complete pig's ear of it, then you get promoted above that to a board member and then take clients to lunch.
And that I found very dull.
I mean, it was administration and massage rather than writing.
Was there anything that you learned from this experience that has influenced your writing at all?
Oh, sure.
I mean, advertising is a great business to learn the principles of direct, clean prose, like journalism must be.
When you have to write to the point, you can't take your time about it, you can't have these lengthy digressions, you can't indulge yourself too much.
You're on and off, and you better say what you have to say while you've got the
audience's attention, if indeed you ever get it.
And you really might be allowed to engage in the attention of the reader.
Sure.
I mean, my progression was really, although it was not deliberate, it was really quite interesting, I think, because I went from writing ads for adults to writing books for children.
I think it was about the same.
You've got about the same degree for attention span, advertising for adults who are not really reading the newspaper or watching TV to watch your work, you know,
which is anything else.
And kids have always got much more to do than just sit down and read a book.
So I graduated from advertising to children's books, same principle, short words, short paragraphs, get to the point, get on with it, make it interesting, and illustrate it, make it visually interesting as well.
That's interesting.
You did have this background in children's books, and maybe that was in your mind when you started to engage in the choir for this book.
Not really, no.
I mean, that was really a manner of self-indulgence because I just admired him and I wanted to work with him.
Did you ever work with an illustrator at all?
No, I didn't.
I only ever wanted to work, well, in this book, I only ever wanted to work with him because I thought he was absolutely the right man to do it.
Had he not agreed, would the book have been illustrated, do you think?
Maybe not.
Would it have been written as a straightforward work?
Yeah.
I mean, it's infinitely better because of the illustrations, I think.
I send out illustrations to my newspapers to take my stuff, and usually I send out a picture of the author, but in this case, it's almost so tempting.
Oh, yeah, forget about the author.
Damn this.
This is wonderful.
I can see the play that this will show in the papers.
Well, the other thing about it, which
again, is a fortunate by-product rather than any deliberate thing, is it reproduces well in newspapers, which, yeah.
There's no half-towers there.
No.
I mean, if you've got some brilliant impressionistic person to do lyrical watercolours of a dog at play in the field of lavender, it's just looking like... Gorgeous in four colours and a six-colour... Yeah.
But these are straight... Also, they work well in all sorts of sizes.
But as I say, that's the sort of
a byproduct of it all.
I think the great strength of Ed's work is just funny.
What time is your next gig, by the way?
Oh, no, don't worry about that.
You've been accused of writing a lot of plays.
I know we get out of markets and the people down there always claim to
to dread the summer invasion of all these people who come, and they claim to be angry with the people who have drawn these others to this place.
Sure.
Oh, yeah, I've had my share of that.
Of course, now, going to France, as you did, and writing and comping this, occasioning this invasion,
Tell me a little bit about that.
Well, I find it very interesting.
That is, in fact, has that happened?
Oh, sure.
You know, I've been pilloried in the British press for about two years now.
Why should I follow that?
Well, I'll tell you why.
It's because it's a nice place to go for a free trip.
So I've had journalists doing that thing of doorstepping you, you know, where they bang on the door without any kind of
warning.
Really?
You open the door and there's a camera pointed in your face and a microphone.
And they say, we want to talk to you about the fact that you've ruined Provence.
So you say, well, look, I'm sorry, I'm working or I'm eating or I've got friends here or whatever.
Well, if you don't give us an interview, we'll just have to, you know, wing it.
Yeah.
And they made a great deal of play about it.
What interests me about it is, first of all, that
The standard thing is you single-handedly, with two little books, have ruined the fast area of southern France.
They never say in any specific way who I've ruined it for, where I've ruined it, or how I've ruined it.
And so if I ask them about it, not just journalists, but people in general who sort of suck their teeth and say, dear, it's terrible, I say, well, what have I done?
And they say, well, you've encouraged tourists.
from there.
Yeah.
I think the locals don't complain about that.
No, they don't.
They don't.
And so I say, well, yes, sir, I may have done that, but I feel I'm a tourist.
And how about you?
And they say, well, what do you mean?
I say, well, do you ever go on vacation outside Chipping Sotbury or Gloucester or wherever you live?
And they say, of course.
I say, we are tourists.
But the thing is, there's double standards.
They are never tourists, nor are their families, nor are their friends.
It's all those other bastards who are tourists who are mucking it up for, you know, the genteel people whose visit to a country is a sort of blessing.
So there's a tremendous amount of hypocrisy involved and also a tremendous amount of ignorance and exaggeration because the truth of the matter is that Provence, or my part of it, has been very busy in July and August for at least the last 15 years
mainly because Parisians found out about it about 15, 20 years ago, bought second homes there and came down every August.
So August has never been a very quiet time down there in my memory, nor I suspect anybody else's memory.
Yeah.
I mean, they come down in August for the very good reason.
The children are all on vacation, so they all come down on famille and they move in.
How long does it take to get there?
Well, it was about
six, seven-hour drive, or four hours on the train, or an hour on the plane, so easy.
So I've hardly sort of found this secret corner of France that nobody has ever heard of and blown it.
People have known about it for many, many years and have been coming down for many years.
But what I find so interesting is, and it happens, it crops up time and time and time again,
This is double standard when one's talking about tourism, because we're all tourists.
Well, you consider yourself a touristy?
Sure, I'm a long-term tourist.
I'm not a native of the country.
I don't work the vines.
I don't have a job in a provincial office.
You certainly are.
Indirectly, you contribute to the local economy.
Quite a lot, yeah.
I mean, as you said, I don't get any...
from the people who run restaurants or bars or hotels.
And a lot of the local farmers have suddenly started renting barns or places out for people who want to come down but can't afford a hotel.
The other reason it's very difficult to say that the area has been ruined is that there aren't enough beds.
Who's making these changes?
The British press basically?
It's basically the British expatriates and the British press.
And occasionally you'll get people, I get run into people at book signings, and they say, well, I hope you're not going to write another book about it.
Meanwhile, they're asking me to autograph the book, right?
And asking me to tell them where they can go next.
So there's this weird sort of... Well, you never saw yourself as a travel writer, and you're not a travel writer.
I'm not a travel writer.
But I mean, you certainly have this ancillary effect of...
bringing people, making people travel.
Well, apparently, yeah.
I mean, I didn't have any idea.
Wasn't your first thought actually to do a novel?
Oh, yeah, no, I did, that was something that I did about six years later.
The third book set here is a novel.
Yeah, that's what I was going over there to do.
Was that the book?
Yeah, I just got distracted.
Fortunately or unfortunately, depending on what
And that's what happened by the circumstances of your being there with your place?
Yeah, it was just novel.
It was a great novelty, and I found that people were the thing, and what was going on was very interesting to me.
And I couldn't concentrate on it in New York, partly because I didn't have anywhere to work.
I wonder if a lot of the fascination people have is this story that you put out of, you know, you were in your late 30s, early 40s, you said the hell of a novel.
Oh, yes.
And the fact that you went to some place where the sun is wonderful and warm, and you escaped winter.
Escapism, I think, is the thing.
And why can't we talk to something like this?
Well, there's an interesting thing that I heard or read about last week.
There was some sort of survey done.
A survey is always being done over here.
And they polled a lot of the businessmen in there
mid to late 30s, early 40s, and something like 50% of them said, what I'd really like to do is give it up and go and do something else, whether it was sailing a boat around the world or become a sheep farmer in Montana or do something, I don't know.
But I suspect a large part of the popularity of those early books was that they thought, well, I
I'd quite like to do something like that.
And it was nice to have it documented.
And it was also nice, I guess, to have it turn out pleasantly rather than in ignominy and failure, where, you know, you put your tail between your legs and you go back to work because it didn't work out.
Of course, when the first book came out, I mean, it hadn't become, I don't know how many million copies of your books are in print now.
Maybe you have the number, I don't know.
I don't know.
Quite a lot.
But when that book was written, success was strictly a dream at that point.
So that wasn't a factor in people's response, the fact that this guy
went over here.
No, but I mean, no, no, no, it wasn't a check at all.
It wasn't a success.
I think it was, it certainly wasn't financial success, but I think, oh, it does now, but I think what it was then was just some kind of personal success in contentment, if you like, because, you know,
I wrote the book because I was happy there and I felt very affectionate about the people in the region.
And I think that probably came through.
And I think it was one of those things where money didn't enter into it in the beginning.
Now people say, oh, well, you know, you knew it was going to happen and you were in advertising, so you knew how to put it together.
Don't you wish you could print text?
Oh, yeah, well, who'd be working in advertising if that's what it makes you do?
You know, they'd all be out writing books and...
living the life of Riley.
Your illustrated sex manual for children is still in print.
I know, it's wonderful.
I've never seen it.
I mean, is it... Oh, sure.
Yeah, I mean, I get it thrust beneath my nose at signings from time to time.
I know it's still sold 20, 30,000.
Is that done with... Well, that was done on reflex.
I mean, most of the good things that's happened to me have been accidental.
And that was really because one of my
children sort of slammed me up against the wall one day and asked me, I don't know, what an erection was or something.
And I was like, this is not the real time to answer it.
Why did you go to school?
Well, yeah, I mean, I probably said that.
But I did go and have a look at some books to see if I could get some sort of hold on an organised response.
And I thought they were pretty dreadful.
I mean, they were writing very medical books.
I mean, cross-sections of uterus and things like that all over the place, although they were the sort of animalistic genres of sex education, you know, rabbits and squirrels copulating in the woods, and then they drew a parallel between that and humans.
And so I just wanted to do a book that was as straightforward as possible.
So it was a serious effort, in fact?
No, I mean, all I did feel very strongly, and that's probably the advertising background, is that it had to be something, first of all, which was truthful.
Secondly, which allowed the reader, in this case I thought of a six-year-old, seven-year-old child, to laugh, to get over the embarrassment of the subject.
And thirdly, just to look decent, because all these other books look sort of
they were being brown wrappers, you know, they were sort of slightly seedy.
But what they were working really is, that's the side of the... Oh, that, certainly, yeah.
That's a whole other story.
Yeah, no, that was the idea of a friend of mine who was a cartoonist, and he wanted to have a strip cartoon on this character.
He found that the laws of the British press, probably the same in America, bad, the, you know,
the depiction of an upright member in their column.
So he said, I can't ever do anything with him.
I think what he's doing is a book.
And he said, I don't know.
I've got these drawings.
So I did a framework for him and wrote the text for him.
No, I think that, again, is not a new idea.
I mean, people have been... The conflict between man's libido and his intellect has not been something that's only just been discovered.
It was fun to do.
Now, what are you working on now, might I ask?
No, I'm working on another novel, and the idea has intrigued me for about two or three years.
I'm fascinated by the truffle business in France, and I love truffles.
I'm intrigued by the fact that it's such a murky business.
You can never get anybody to admit how many they've got on their land, how many they sell, how much they've got for them.
Well, partly because they are terrifically expensive there.
Kyle's price last winter was like $700 a pound in Paris.
And I've never yet met anybody that has anything to do with the truffle business that pays infant tax.
Right.
And the production of truffles
Although this is very murky, because nobody has precise statistics, it's got to be several tons a year, maybe 20 tons a year, which is probably about five or six million dollars a year, and it's just being dissipated wrong way.
And so this novel is about a truffle scan in France.
Well, that's cute.
Well, I think it's nice, because it allows me to do the research and eat it.
That's what I said about that.
Which is, which we haven't even touched on yet, but you certainly do have a passion for... I do like lunch, yeah.
You do like lunch, and you like... And dinner, even.
You like a good vintage.
Yeah, yeah.
There was even a wine that had the label of your first book.
Oh, yeah.
Well, that was a thing that, I don't know, they're still going, but I have a friend who runs a vineyard in Pertwee, a vineyard called Valgeronise.
who's a very nice guy like Omer and he wanted to do a wine called a year in Provence and he does make very nice wine and it was about the time when they'd had the first lot of very severe floods in Provence and the villages were really decimated and began getting quite a lot of hardship so I'm very happy to even use that but what I would like is for a contribution every time a bottle is sold
instead of me getting a royalty, give it, you know, set up a fund for flood relief.
And so we did that.
And I think it's done quite well.
I know the village has got a lot of money out of it, and it's been able to do things which perhaps they wouldn't otherwise have done.
And it's a great excuse to drink, which is one of the things that I feel life needs more of.
So that if you have a bottle, you know you're doing some good to some poor guy who had his house...
ruined up in religion.
Some of these studies about how the longevity of the French do in some great measure to their appreciation for wine.
I mean, this must have come as a... I guess that probably helped the books roll and hindered them.
I mean, I personally don't... I think wine's got something to do with it, but a couple of interesting things I've noticed.
And one is that you very rarely see truly obese French people.
And the other thing that I think is the cause, really, is that they eat a very good, balanced diet and they take their time to do it.
And they don't have snacks or they don't sit in their car and stuff things down or have a sandwich at the desk.
They go out, they spend two hours, they devote themselves to a decent meal, a couple of glasses of wine, and they work a little later in the evening.
But for those two hours or
They'll have an argument about football or politics, but they're not on the phone.
They do it right.
I think they do it right.
Well, I think statistics tend to support that.
Food is very good, but it's also very good for you, most of it.
There's a lot of olive oil used instead of fat.
There's a lot of natural-grown stuff.
They don't eat as much meat as the Anglo-Saxon food.
And, of course, they have a couple of glasses, which
medical science shows can dilute or dissolve the cholesterol if you take it.
There was a very interesting study done of the dietary habits of 20 developed countries not long ago.
And the most healthy diet from the heart point of view was Japan because they just eat fish and rice essentially.
They've had some heart disease, you know.
Well, of this study, you know, from 1 to 20.
I think the study you're doing is the industrialization point.
Yeah, from 1 to 20, it was Japan number one, France number two.
Yeah, I mean, the Americans, the British, the Irish, and the Scots, the English, the Irish, and the Scots.
Well, steaks, starch, fried food, all that stuff.
And that I found fairly interesting.
I mean, luckily,
They didn't go in for the cirrhosis of the liver, because I suspect that France is up there amongst the leaders in that.
But they don't drink a lot of hard liquor over there, do they?
Not a huge amount.
Mostly wine.
Down where we are, they drink a lot of pastis, which is harder than most hard liquor, in fact.
It's 45 degrees proof, which is stronger than whiskey or brandy.
And yourself, you're
You're a wine drinker, fundamentally.
Yeah, I mean, I quite like anything.
I like scotch every year.
Yeah, I do.
I like scotch.
I like pasties.
I like brandy and Calvador from Armagnac and stuff like that.
But essentially, it's wine.
I mean, I can do without the hard stuff, but I would be very hard-pressed to go through a day without wine.
So you're in the mid-50s now, I guess.
Yeah.
20 years ago, you never could have predicted what you'd be doing today.
No, no.
I can't imagine life having turned out as kindly for me as it has done.
That's really quite nice, isn't it?
It's wonderful.
It's wonderful, because I did have, for about 10 years after I left advertising, fairly rough patches financially, and it is a source of constant
pleasure to make you realize that I've just been lucky enough to do what I want to do and live where I want to live and earn a living out of it.
Do you have any particular person in mind as a reader?
Do you visualize any?
Well, yeah, I think my keenest critic, well, not my keenest critic of the work, there are many keener out there, I'm sure, but a very good editor and a good critic is my wife, and I show her the stuff that I write every week or every day or whenever.
And if she doesn't want to throw up when she's read it, I suspect that it's got some merit.
And if she actually says, well, that's good, then I think it's probably got enough merit to send to the publisher.
So I write for her as much as for anybody else.
Because in the end, all those people say, well, I've got my audience.
You're writing for one person at a time.
And Jenny's the person that I write for, essentially.
And I'm told she edits herself out as you translate it.
Oh, yeah.
I got these awful letters when the first book came out from the feminist lobby in America.
And they said, I think it's disgraceful.
You're treating your wife like a piece of furniture.
You never mention her.
You never talk about her.
She's just some sort of shadowy presence that supplies food.
And I had this form letter done eventually because
Actually, what had happened was I wrote a lot about her, and she just wanted me to take it out, so I took it out.
But she said, it makes me feel embarrassed.
And I said, OK, well, I'll take it out.
So I had to do all these letters to people saying, you know, I'm bowing to the wishes of my lady.
Why?
I don't know if they believed it or not, but it was true.
But you have no idea the virulence of some of the letters.
And this was six, seven years ago, and I didn't think I'd done anything particularly insulting.
And I hadn't really mentioned much about myself either.
I'd just been up there as a necessary observer for events.
So there we are.
America's a strange and wonderful place.
And to just repeat something you said in other interviews, I guess the original attraction to Provence was the warmer climate.
Well, it's a combination of things.
It is the climate.
Well,
It's the light.
We both love France and the French, which many people don't, with all their quirks and their arrogance and their chauvinism and all this other stuff.
We don't quite find them delightful.
There's the emptiness of it, which is very nice, and which, despite, you may read, apart from July and August, it's still an empty place.
The food, the drink,
scenery, the air, the light, all those things.
We just fell in love with it when we first went home on vacation and that was that.
That's one of those places you either take a shine to or you don't.
And was it a fairly inexpensive place to live when you first went there?
Certain things are and certain things aren't.
I mean, you can eat very well, very reasonably there.
The produce is, if you eat the produce of the season and you don't want raspberries in December or something like that, you can live
The wine's good and cheap.
The food's good and cheap.
Certain things are very expensive.
Electricity is probably about five times what it is in the States.
The same bill is at least four times what it is in the States.
Income tax is very high.
I mean, most Americans, when I tell them what I pay in income tax, they just don't believe it.
Because it's sort of 60, 65 that carries, yeah.
That's why a lot of whiteys move to Ireland.
Right.
It's not an expensive place.
The property is quite expensive, although I wouldn't say any more expensive than any nice suburb.
Oh, yeah, well, I've been living there.
I mean, I've got a carte de saison and all that stuff.
Your citizenship is still UK?
Yes, but, I mean, the French have a fine disdain for all of that.
I say, well, you're living here, which is reasonable.
And you pay French taxes, which is also reasonable.
The taxes themselves may be fairly unreasonable, but... But the principle is sound.
The principle is sound, I think, yeah.
And then, you know, this is what you pay for the privilege.
I think every country does that in one form or another.
Sure.
Now, the other interesting thing is that everybody in France, everybody that I know down there...
whether they do it or not, but they all say, oh, you just shouldn't pay what they ask.
You go and negotiate, you take the tax inspector out for lunch and say.
Apparently, yeah.
I've never tried it, but they say, and if that doesn't work, they say you just cheat.
You'd be tempting, well, you know.
And there is, undoubtedly, a great deal of cheating.
Well, no, there's lots of cheating on those right here.
Yeah.
But, no, I mean, that's very high.
And things like the sales tax of 15, 18%.
But the only thing is that about 40% of the French labor force is a bureaucracy.
I mean, it's hired by government.
Plus, you know, you're making a good living, you're enjoying yourself.
Sure.
There's money in the bank, I'm sure.
Yeah.
How much do you need, frankly?
You can only eat so much a day.
You can only drive one car at a time.
You can only live in one house at a time.
We have no particularly expensive hobbies.
We don't want to have racehorses or yachts or
The only thing I've noticed as a result of our improved financial circumstances is that we buy better wine than we used to, and that's about it.
I'm always looking for the kicker for my story.
You know, the last spread.
I think you just gave it to me.
That's about it, though.
I think we've got a lot of stuff here for my interview.
Good.
Let me shut this up.